[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BOOM]
>>Consciousness.
It is something that
we all have yet remains
the most mysterious human trait.
This is a quality that
every human being possesses.
We can be aware of
our own consciousness
during waking times, when we
are deep in contemplation,
or even pondering the
vastness of the universe.
To better understand
what consciousness is,
many attempts have been made
to define exactly what it is.
Perhaps it's that
state of wakefulness
when you are aware
of your surroundings.
Some say that it is
the ability to be
aware of something
going on within oneself.
Others say that it is a
sense of self-awareness.
All of these are
considered to be
valid descriptions
of consciousness.
Since time immemorial,
philosophers
have debated the exact
nature of consciousness
and what it means to be a
sentient, or even sapient,
being.
Advances in neuroscience
have given us
an intricate understanding of
exactly how the brain works.
We know the regions of the
brain where memories are stored,
where information from our
eyes and ears are formed.
We have even been able
to transmit thoughts
from one person to another
via advanced neurotechnology.
However, the source or
cause of consciousness
continues to elude even the
most diligent of seekers.
But there are some who
may have found the answer.
>>Because everybody's
totally fixed on matter
as the ultimate
reality, they're trying
to explain how
consciousness could possibly
come out of matter.
And they're getting nowhere.
They've got theories in
quantum physics they've tried,
theories in
information sciences,
chemical theories--
nothing works.
But nobody dares
question the assumption.
And the assumption is that
matter is unconscious.
And that's the problem.
If matter is unconscious,
the problem is, how on Earth
does consciousness,
awareness, ever arise out
of something that
has no awareness.
>>Matter and energy
are emanations
of some deeper intrinsic order.
All these seemingly separate
selves, seemingly separate
identities, going
about their own lives,
living what appears to
be a separate existence--
and yet we are all
fundamentally sharing
the same unified consciousness
that the universe is made of.
We've now seen scientific proof
that the universe emanates
from a geometric seed that
doesn't have any space or time.
Since we are conscious,
consciousness
must be in that seed.
All of the universe is
emanating from this.
So there is scientific
grounding to support
the Law of One
philosophical stance, which
is that, in fact, there
is one infinite creator,
and the universe itself is
a living, conscious being.
Space, time, energy,
matter, and biology
are created by a
universal consciousness.
Our idea about
subatomic particles
are, as physics class has shown
us, little billiard balls.
You know, that's
what we think of.
But actually, a subatomic
particles is not that.
It's a vibrating packet of
energy, trading information
and energy with other subatomic
particles and this background
energy field.
So a subatomic particle is
essentially a shape-shifter.
So when you look down at
matter at that tiny level, what
you find is there's no
such thing as a thing.
The unit of the
universe isn't a thing.
It's a relationship.
It's the relationship between
those subatomic particles.
>>Scientists have been
able to detect and record
this energy field.
But what we see as a
background energy field
may well be a unified field
of intelligent energy.
This energy is more
than just intelligent.
It is omnipresent throughout
all the time and space
and permeates
everything in existence.
>>We've looked at the idea
that the gravitational field
is in fact a fluid-like
essence of the universe
that all matter arises from.
It's the source of matter,
energy, consciousness,
spirituality.
All of the things that
we see in the universe,
both physical and nonphysical,
arise from this source field.
>>When you start factoring in
the whole idea of a quantum
energy field, then that is
a wonderful neat metaphor
to understand
things, connections
that occur between people, or
between people and other living
things, like plants, across
time and across space.
>>It is a
self-organizing universe,
and it is a
self-correcting universe.
The embryo knows how
to turn into a baby.
The acorn knows how to
turn into an oak tree.
Within nature, it is
obvious that there
is a natural
intelligence at work.
>>Marcus Aurelius, in his
writing, "The Meditations, "
contemplated, "For there is one
universe made up of all things,
and one god who pervades all
things, and one substance,
and one law, and one reason."
In a lesser-known work of
Charles Darwin, "The Formation
of Vegetable Mould Through
the Action of Worms,"
he documented how far
earthworms acted consciously
and how much mental
power they displayed.
He concluded that there
was no absolute threshold
between lower and
higher animals.
Even Albert Einstein
offered support
to this idea of a
unified consciousness
with all living things.
In his 1949 work, "The
World As I See It,"
he calls for us to
embrace all living
creatures and the
whole of nature.
>>Whatever that original
source of consciousness
that has brought
everything into creation,
visible and invisible,
we're just aspects of that.
It actually highlights how
much bigger and greater
the creator is.
>>If I realize that
I am a child of God,
that I'm just an idea in the
mind of God, then and only then
do I get to realize that
you are the same thing.
And on that realm, there is
no separation between us.
On that realm, there is
no competition between us.
>>We're talking about a
universal consciousness, where
I'm going to talk
to the spirit of God
within every living being.
Now, whether we call that
the zero-point energy field,
we call that universal
intelligence,
we call it God--
zero-point energy
field is the new name for God.
So it's an ocean of
holographic records
that houses within it the
history of every living being,
and makes the connection
possible through means
of a quantum process.
And that quantum process
is unconditional love.
>>Unconditional love is
the key to understanding
the nature of our connection.
While this intelligent
and creative field
permeates everything
in our universe,
its loving and creative nature
is what draws us all together
and binds us to the
universe and each other.
>>If my energy is not coming
from love, compassion,
and forgiveness, by whatever
name I give it, then
I am making a
world that will not
be happy for myself--
and others, by the way.
>>Now, you've got
religious fears.
You've got skepticism.
You've got all sorts
of walls that are there
to stop humanity, to encraze
cosmic consciousness.
And they're all distancing
themselves from the spirit
and from the face
and the truth of God.
And that's wrong.
You cannot let go
off the creator.
>>We have a metaphor
of ourselves,
or an image of ourselves, as
the hero up against it all.
The whole idea is about
being right, being first,
being individual.
That's been our programming.
If we have a hard drive, it's
been programmed with "I win,
you lose."
This is absolutely
against nature,
and that's why we're
in the mess we're in.
This is what selfish looks like.
You know, it's
hard to understand
how much that
definition of ourselves
really informs how we operate.
Because not all cultures do.
They think of themselves
as being all connected.
And from that, they create a
very different kind of society.
>>You are born with
divine consciousness.
The whole point of
being on the Earth
is to realize that and live your
life in the pursuit of justice
and compassion, from
the profoundest peace
and the wildest, wildest love.
A state of joyful
interpenetrating, interrelated
love with all things
is already here.
It's on the Earth.
It's not in some other where.
It's here.
And the whole point of waking
up to your divine consciousness
is that you wake up to this
radiance of divine presence
in the universe, in other
beings, and in yourself.
>>There's another way of being,
another mode of consciousness,
that we can free ourselves
up from this attachment,
this materiality.
And when we do that,
we begin to become
more in-tune with our
world, with our environment,
with other people.
We become more compassionate.
So I think the next
stage is, having realized
that's the basic problem, is
then say, OK, what do we know?
Just looking at the world's
spiritual traditions
and other metaphysical
traditions,
what do we know that
can really help free
up human consciousness?
>>Forging this connection with
this universal consciousness
is something that is
available to everyone.
However, we live in
a turbulent world
full of stressful lifestyles
and dramatic conflicts
that continuously tear us
away from this source of life
and unconditional love.
We have literally been
programmed to remain separate
in order to better serve the
needs of those in control.
To remember where
we came from, we
must learn to see beyond
these manufactured illusions,
to open our hearts and minds to
the unified force binding all
of creation.
>>There is a reluctance--
and in some cases,
an outright resistance--
for the mainstream media,
mainstream academia,
classrooms, textbooks,
to share the new discoveries.
This would be
important at any time,
but this is especially
critical right now,
because we are at
this moment of crisis.
>>We have made an incredible
technological advancement.
We will go on the moon.
We have GPS.
We have the internet.
We're up here on the physical
realm of consciousness.
But in the spirit, we are
still 2,000 years ago,
in deceptive, dogmatic,
religious teaching.
The gap needs to be adjusted.
And that can be accomplished
with cosmic consciousness,
where not only you, but
agreed-- the people that
are in power, the people that
are in charge of your life.
Once they become
cosmic conscious,
now we are talking about a
very, very big difference.
>>Empire isn't playing a
low-consciousness game.
It's playing a
high-consciousness game.
That means it needs our
consent to function.
Its says, I'm going to
change your reality.
Is that OK?
And you go, yep, right.
And then it can do it.
If you say, no, it can't touch
you, it cannot touch you.
I can do nothing.
>>This is where I
believe we are now.
I believe that the
rise of consciousness
is allowing us to move
rapidly towards that.
And realizing we can move
beyond the technology,
because the technology is
actually in our bodies.
Our bodies are the highest
level of technology
that we can imagine.
>>The first thing to realize
is to take responsibility
for our own consciousness.
It's easy to say, you know,
other people must change.
But we're all part of them.
I'm part of them.
We must all change.
And the only person I really
have responsibility for
is myself.
How do I free myself from
outdated conditioning?
>>Illusions are as powerful in
their effects as is the truth.
So free will is that I can
think whatever I want to think.
It's like, I can make my theme
that I'm a daughter of God,
or I could make my
theme something else.
But to the extent to which
I make it something else,
the vision of one world costs
you the vision of the other.
So when I get lost
in the story and
in the manufactured, made-up
illusions of the world--
what are you going to be?
What's your brand?
What're you going to do?
What's your strategy?
How're you going
to make it happen?
I, by definition, am
entering into a realm
where I'm always
going to be seeking,
and I'm never going
to be finding.
>>Once you realize that
the whole universe is
an emanation of
consciousness, you
can dissolve your
karma by forgiveness
and by accepting
everything in the universe
as being purely sacred.
The consciousness
of the universe
wants us to grow into
more than we are now.
>>And that is our salvation.
And if we worked on that
collectively, and institutions,
individuals,
organizations, whatever,
made that a real focus, I
think, in a very short time,
we could actually have
processes, techniques,
things we could
disseminate to the public
which would really
encourage that awakening
of consciousness.
When we start living according
to the definition of who
we really are, and start
wiping that hard drive clean,
only then will we
evolve to another level.
>>It's the rising of the
golden yeast of passionate love
consciousness in millions
and millions of human beings
as a response to this
appalling evolutionary crisis
that we've created
out of our own lunacy.
And this passionate
love consciousness--
passionate for compassion,
passionate for harmony,
passionate for balance,
passionate for justice--
is rising now like a
golden yeast in millions
of human beings of all
kinds, all over the world.
>>I just think it's
an exciting time.
If we all understand that
message of how powerful we
really are and start
living it-- you know,
sometimes they'll say,
oh, well that's for them.
It can't be for me.
Well, yeah, it is for you.
It's for all of us.
And don't we all want to
live this most empowered life
that we can live?
And live the life we dream?
I mean, it's not just
for other people.
It is for each and every
one of us, if which choose,
make the decision, to do it.
>>The reality we
think we live in
is merely an illusion,
created and perpetuated
by the forces who stand to gain
from you remaining separate
from the infinite love
and wisdom that emanates
from the source of all creation.
Of course, you always
have the free will
to choose to live in
this world of illusions
or to share in a collective
vision of light, life, love,
and liberty that originates
beyond the confines
of our limited physical
time-space reality.
To seek beyond the illusions
is to find a deeper
meaning of the pure
energy we call love.
It is learning to share it,
not for personal gratification
but for the benefits
of all sentient beings,
so that they too
will learn to live
in a life free of
suffering and illusions.